title: Kimball Dimensional Modeling Techniques Overview
date: 2019-06-17 20:28:10
tags:
- Datawarehouse
- Kimball
---

# Fundamental Concepts

## Gather Business Requirements and Data Realities

samples in the book

Chapter 1 DW/BI and Dimensional Modeling Primer , p 5
Chapter 3 Retail Sales , p 70
Chapter 11 Telecommunications , p 297
Chapter 17 Lifecycle Overview , p 412
Chapter 18 Dimensional Modeling Process and Tasks , p 431
Chapter 19 ETL Subsystems and Techniques ,p 444

## Collaborative Dimensional Modeling Workshops

Dimension models should be designed by folks who fully understand the business and their needs.

## Four-Step Dimensional Design process

* Select the business Process
* Declare the Grain
* Identify the Dimensions
* Identify the facts

## Business Processes

Operational Activities

## Grain

The grain establishes exactly what a single fact table row represents.

## Dimensions for Descriptive Context

## Facts for Measurements

## Star Schemas and OLAP Cubes


## Graceful Extensions to Dimensional Models

* Add column to Fact table to describe FACT
* Add column to Fact table to contain foreign key to new dimension table
* Add column to Dimension table to add Attributes


# Basic Fact Table Techniques

## Fact Table Structure
A fact table contains the numeric measure produced by an operational measurement event in the real world.

## Additive, Semi-Additive, Non-Additive Facts

Balance amounts are common semi-additive facts because they are additive across all dimensions except time.
Some measures are completely non-additive, such as ratios.

## Nulls in Fact Tables

 __nulls must be avoided in the fact table's foreign keys__

 ## Conformed facts

 Same fact across different table, must use same name

 ## Transaction Fact Tables


## Periodic Snapshot Fact Tables

## Factless Fact Tables

Samples : table containing students attend school or not.

## Aggregate Fact Tables

For accelerate the query performance.

## Consolidated Fact Table

Sales actual and sales forcast being saved into same table, this design will make it easy to analysis but hard to ETL.

# Basic Dimension Table Techniques

## Dimension Surrogate Key

* Structure: wide, flat, denormalized tables with many low-cardinality text Attributes.
* Single primary keys
     * Can't use operational system's natural key
     * Recommend to use anonymous integer primary key; Date dimension is exempt from this rule.

## Natural, Durable and Supernatural key

* Natural key is generated from business System
* Durable / Supernatural key is generated by DW to indicate although Natural Key changed but it's the same object. (for example an employ rejoined.)

* Drilling down: fundamental data analysis method

* Degenerate Dimensions
>  example : an invoice with multiple items.  Items fact table has all the dimensions as foreign key. Then invoice number become a dimension for item fact table ; but the invoice number dimension do not has any attribute with it. So the invoice number dimension table became a Degenerate Dimension. And this kind of dimension would be helpful with transaction and accumulating snapshot fact tables.

* Use text words in dimension attribute instead of crypic abbreviations , flags etc
* Why to use Date Dimension instead of using SQL compute: because Date Dimension has more attributes like: week number, holiday , fiscal period etc.
    * DateTime dimension table also need default row as normal dimension table
* Role playing dimension: means dimension being defined once but being referenced mulitple times in one fact table and each time has different meaning. For example , Time dimension.
* Junk Dimension: when transaction has loads of dimension that don't have a lot of value, we can combine some of them as one dimension.
* Snowflaked Dimensions: when you normalized all the dimension table.
* Outtrigger Dimensions: when dimension reference another dimension.
     * for example a dimension refer to date dimension.
     * The baseline is dimensions are all supporting fact table. There shouldn't be a case that fact table need one dimension to get the key of another dimension.


# Integration via Conformed Dimensions

# Dealing with Slowly Changing Dimension Attributes

# Dealing with Dimension Hierarchies

## Fixed Depth Positional Hierarchies

## Slightly Ragged/Variable Depth Hierarchies

## Ragged/Variable Depth Hierarchies with Hierarchy Bridge Tables

## Ragged/Variable Depth Hierarchies with Pathstring Attributes

# Advanced Fact Table Techniques


# Advanced Dimension Techniques


# Special Purpose Schemas
