title: AWS - EC2
date: 2018-02-28 10:57:23
tags:
- AWS
- EC2
---

# 015.mp4 EC2 -- Elastic Compute Cloud

# 016.mp4 Elastic Compute Cloud

Region: same region same price, same latency , same regulation
Available Zone:
Edge Location: Cloud Front

purchase mode,
1) on-demand instances
2) reserved instances
3) spot instances (错峰用机)

types of instances,
1) general
2) compute optimized
3) memery optimized
4) GPU
5) storage optimized

Special instance: T2 burstable performance instances

EC2 storage option,


# 017.mp4 Hands-on Creating a NodeJS server on EC2


* Step 1, created a users
* Step 2, created a group and attached aws build-in policy (admin access)
* Step 3, created a role with a unique arn, and have full admin access policy attached to it
* Step 4, create a security group to stand for the current webserver access.
     * it sits in certain VPC
     * it has inbound and outbound access defined.
* Step 5, launch EC2 AMI(aws machine images)
     * used the community built image
     * selected to assign public ip (as this is the web server)
     * "AMI Role" option is where define what role this EC2 AMI instance will perform; use the role created in step2
     * "select security group" , this step should use the security group we created at step 4
     * generate key pair or reuse existing one --- used to connect to the instance
* Step 6, tranfrom the pem downloaded to ppk and save to putty folder (used to access the instanse via SSH)
* Step 7, ssh to the instance and run the nodejs application
* Step 8, setup FileZilla to sftp to the instance (setting up the ppk file location)


# 018.mp4  Hands-on Connect to EC2 using Bash on windows

Directly git bash from the folder where the Pem sits.

```bash
cd /path/to/ppk
ssh -i "/path/to/pem" remotehostname
sftp -i "/path/to/pem" remotehostname
ls
lls
lcd /local/path/to
put /local/path/to/sourcefile.txt
```

# 019 hands-on connect to EC2 widnows instance

Difference with creating Linux instance,

* __RDP (3389)__ need to be specified at security group (inbound)
* Windows Administrator password is dynamically randomly generated and as a PEM just like the linux instance (download)
* need to extract online and get administrator user and password

## EC2Config

About the EC2Config service (New name EC2Launch)
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/UsingConfig_WinAMI.html
 * built in function executed to enable the box to work with aws cloud. (for example the get metadata link)
 * can be used to initialize the windows box
 * can be used to trigger some management command for the box (like mount the EBS, etc)
 * Note. EC2Launch replaces EC2Config on Windows Server 2016 AMIs.
 
# 020 hands-on connect to EC2 via MacOS client


For linux

```shell
chmod 400 xxx.pem
ssh -i "/path/to/pem/xxx.pem" remotehostname
```

For Windows

download CORD RDP client


# 021 create a custom AMI

iptable rerounting

```shell
sudo iptables -A PREROUTING -t nat -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 8080
```

After everything is setup
select the instance -> action -> create image

AMI --> Images
Select the image being created we can
put it as Public
copy it to other region and create a instance based on this custmized instance


# 022 EBS (Elastic Block Storage) for EC2

EBS(Elastic Block Storage)
* attached to an EC2 instance
* persist independently from the life of the EC2 instance
* pay only for what you use


Steps,
* Create a low-end instance and select to add EBS to this instance.
  * the instance can be created from an existing snapshot.
  * By default, EBS won't be deleted on EC2 termination, but this config can be changed.
* Start the Instance; connect to it and mount the EBS

```shell
lsblk
sudo file -s /dev/xvdb
sudo mkfs -t ext4 /dev/xvdb
sudo file -s /dev/xvdb
sudo mkdir /data
sudo mount /dev/xvdb /data
sudo nano /etc/fstab
sudo mount -a
sudo touch /data/test.txt

```

* create a snapshot for the EBS
* Create a new EBS volumn based on the snapshot just created
* Create another EC2 instance, selecting the snapshot just created when adding extra EBS to the instance

Instance Storage
Instance Storage:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/InstanceStorage.html
Not available for low end EC2
must use block device mapping to attach them as the instance is launched.


## EBS snapshots

point-in-time snapshot
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSSnapshots.html
* Asyncronize creation, but status is pending until fully finished
* When trigger the snapshot command, EBS needs to be unmounted (see below example for /dev/sdh); or stop the instance if EBS used as root device; or user garantee no file write to the EBS. But once the command is triggered, the volumn can be mounted back when snapshot staus is "Pending".
* We can have multiple pending snapshots pointing to different time. But total number of pending snapshot will have a limit.

```shell
umount -d /dev/sdh
```

* command used to create EBS snapshot. (Different in aws cli and aws tools for windows Powershell)

```aws_cli
aws ec2 create-snapshot --volume-id vol-1234567890abcdef0 --description "This is my root volume snapshot."
```

```powershell
PS C:\> New-EC2Snapshot -VolumeId vol-12345678 -Description "This is a test"

```



# Related Reading

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSVolumeTypes.html


* SSD-backed volumes optimized for transactional workloads involving frequent read/write operations with small I/O size, where the dominant performance attribute is IOPS
* HDD-backed volumes optimized for large streaming workloads where throughput (measured in MiB/s) is a better performance measure than IOPS

IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second)，即每秒进行读写（I/O）操作的次数，多用于数据库等场合，衡量随机访问的性能。

GP2类型的ssd特别之处：
IOPS可以 100-10000之间伸缩。

BurstDuration=CurrentCredit/(BurstIOPS-3*VolumnInGB)

Initial Credit == Max Credit == 5.4 million
Baseline Performance = Max(100, min(3*VolumnInGB,10000))  最小100 最大1w，正常情况3*volumn

If (currentIOPS<BaselineIOPS)
     CurrentCredit += baseIOPS*Duration;


Linux check current IOPS
```shell
iostat -x
```


Pre-warming = Initialization
```shell
# dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/xvdX bs=1M
```



Encryption standards

industry-standard AES-256 algorithm.



Get Instance's meta data
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html
https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/cn/cloud/library/1620-openstack-metadata-service/
